BigQuery Log Alerting solution. (#58)
terraform-google-modules/terraform-google-log-export: modules/bq-log-alerting/README.md

# Log Export: BigQuery Log Alerting

This submodule allows you to configure a BigQuery Log Alerting solution on GCP. It uses the log export created in the root module to create findings in the [Security Command Center](https://cloud.google.com/security-command-center) under a source called "BQ Log Alerts" based on rules defined as views in BigQuery.

## Basic Architecture

### Cloud Logging

> The high-level overview of the solution is that [log sinks](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-google-log-export) send all Cloud Audit Logs and VPC Flow Logs to [BigQuery](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-google-log-export/tree/master/modules/bigquery) located in a centralized logging project.

Reviewer: nit: since the explanation spans multiple sentences.
```suggestion
The overview of this solution is as follows. [Log sinks](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-google-log-export) sends all Cloud Audit Logs and VPC Flow Logs to [BigQuery](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-google-log-export/tree/master/modules/bigquery) located in a centralized logging project.
```

Custom views in BigQuery are created that look for specific activities in these logs, defined by a SQL query, e.g. looking for events that match `v1.compute.routes.insert` or `v1.compute.routes.delete`.
On a regular interval (`job_schedule` variable , default 15 minutes), Cloud Scheduler writes a message containing a time window parameter (`time_window_quantity` and `time_window_quantity` variables, default 20 minutes) to PubSub.
This 15 minute schedule with 20 minute window is used to ensure some overlap between runs of the function, to catch cases where events may occur just as the Cloud Function run has kicked-off.
The message in PubSub acts as the trigger for the Google Cloud Function (GCF) which reads from the views that exist (one for each use case) and writes any events it finds to Cloud Security Command Center (CSCC).
These events are called "findings" in CSCC parlance and represent events that are actionable, e.g. can close them after investigation.

> Any duplicate findings are ignored, as the unique ID for the finding is generated from a series of constants describing a particular event, and is thus repeatable.

Reviewer: Do we mention what these constants are?

Author: It is a MD5 hash generated from the concatenation of the bq view name + the eventTimestamp + the callerIp + the principalEmail + theresourceName.

Author: fixed

  * "logName: /logs/cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Fdata_access"
  * "logName: /logs/compute.googleapis.com%2Fvpc_flows"
* It is necessary to use a Service Account to authenticate the Google Terraform provider to be able to create the Security Command Center "BQ Log Alerts" Source.
This is a restriction of the Security Command Center API
* [Google App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) must be enabled in the logging project. To enable it manually use:

```shell
gcloud app create \
--region=<REGION> \
--project=<LOGGING_PROJECT> \
--impersonate-service-account=<TERRAFORM_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL>
```

**Note:** The selected region cannot be changed after creation.

### IAM Roles

The Service Account which will be used to invoke this module must have the following IAM roles:

* Project level:
  * Cloud Functions Developer: `roles/cloudfunctions.developer`
  * Storage Admin: `roles/storage.admin`
  * Pub/Sub Admin: `roles/pubsub.admin`
  * Service Account User: `roles/iam.serviceAccountUser`
* Organization level
  * Security Center Sources Editor: `roles/securitycenter.sourcesEditor`
  * Security Admin: `roles/iam.securityAdmin`

> You you are deploying this module in the logging project of the Terraform Example Foundation using the Terraform Service account created in the Foundation it already has all the necessary permissions in the logging project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are deploying this module in the logging project of the Terraform Example Foundation using the Terraform Service account created in the Foundation, it already has all the necessary permissions in the logging project.
```

### APIs

The project against which this module will be invoked must have the
following APIs enabled:

* App Engine Admin API: `appengine.googleapis.com`
* BigQuery API: `bigquery.googleapis.com`
* Cloud Build API: `cloudbuild.googleapis.com`
* Cloud Functions API: `cloudfunctions.googleapis.com`
* Cloud Logging API: `logging.googleapis.com`
* Cloud Pub/Sub API: `pubsub.googleapis.com`
* Cloud Scheduler API: `cloudscheduler.googleapis.com`
* Cloud Storage API: `storage-component.googleapis.com`
* Security Command Center API: `securitycenter.googleapis.com`

### Software Dependencies

* [Terraform][terraform-site] v0.12

> * [Terraform Provider for Google Cloud Platform][terraform-provider-gcp-site] v2.5

Reviewer: Let's cap this to `3.25.0`. Function deployments tended to be flaky before a retry was added.
